and we're getting 60% opens on our email
like our clients that we've had for over
a year results get better every single
month brands are able to generate 40%
plus of their revenue from email we have
like a 95% client retention rate yo yo
yo welcome in sort of a different kind
of video today going to be running
through some Q&A with my director of Ops
Mr Michael LF so what's up Michael not
too much how we doing fantastic so I
have some sauce on email so just like
for some context we run well copy
Premiere email and SMS e-commerce
marketing agency we've worked with over
100 different 78 figure Ecom Brands to
help scale their retention systems and
we've generated over $40 million in the
process since doing that in the past
year we've scaled from having five
full-time employees at this time last
year to now we have over 25 full-time
employees and then also contractors and
whatnot and we've 10x in revenue and
profit in that time so Michael got
started with us like about a year ago
started out writing copy and he was in
the trenches writing copy and did that
for a few months crushed it became an
account manager did it for a few months
crushed it and then he became director
of Ops and then now he's just like
pretty much partner having profit share
in the business so we wouldn't be where
we are without him he's very experienced
with like all the agency Ops and whatnot
we've done a lot in the past 12 months
and I just want to run through have a
conversation on a lot of our frequently
asked questions around email marketing
and scaling a company this fast so my
question to you one of the most asked
questions pretty general what is the
biggest lesson that you've learned from
running an agency like this in scaling
this fast what's like the number one
thing you've learned in and explain it a
little bit 100% so I mean especially
when you're scaling this fast and just
have so many onboarding and clients and
things going on every day in a service
based business lesson number one that
I've learned is it's all about the
people that you bring on essentially the
people that you decide to hire or not
hire are going to make your life either
significantly easier or significantly
more difficult and that's just like on
the team side and bringing on people
that are hungry that are eager to learn
and that are go-getters is one thing
that in this world is unmatched you know
systems are great and you can have all
the systems in the world but if you
don't have the right people executing
them and they're every day it's all
largely going to fall through in some
way sh form yeah and we've had probably
like 50 people be involved with our
company and like now we have like 25
kind of a side question but what do you
think are the main character traits that
like you look for cuz it's one thing to
say like you got to bring in the right
people what are like the main character
traits that you look for with someone
when you want to delegate like the goal
with hiring somebody is to completely
free yourself of a task or mental
bandwidth so in like our experience of
failing with a lot of people and
succeeding with a lot of people like
what are the main character traits
you're looking for there's a lot of
things to consider obviously when you're
bringing someone into your team I would
say Obviously skill is a factor you know
for email marketing whatever type of
agency you're running you have to have
some sort of Base skill but skill is not
necessarily everything when it comes to
hiring you can have the most talented
person in the world but it's if they're
not you know showing up every day and
giving it their all or responding to
clients or getting things out on time
it's pointless in a sense so someone
that's you know consistent that's a
go-getter we're even open to taking on
people that might have a little bit less
experience but we feel like they're
going to crush it they're going to excel
in the role and they may not come in
with some of the I don't know if I want
to say bad habits or you know
pre-established ways of doing things
that might conflict or not or work
against the systems that we have in
place so really just somebody at the end
of the day that's consistent open to
learning and growth you know obviously
being a culture fits a huge thing
someone that gets along with the team
someone that's showing up every day
asking great questions and at the end of
the day like someone you'd want to go
out hang out with grab a beer whatever
it is but someone that fits your team
culture your team Vibe it's going to
improve the level and quality of things
getting done tenfold 100% that's like
the Frat would you get a beer with this
guy it's kind of like that for team as
well so I'll hop in the questions I have
for you one thing I'll just start off
broad also is you say email is the most
important channel for Ecom explain
yourself a little bit why why not ads
why not SEO why not socials why email
yeah 100% so the thing that's different
about email is it's the bottom of the
funnel and it's the quickest access to
people who already know like and trust
you and on top of that it's cheap so all
these platforms whether it's ads SEO
whatever it's all about Tik Tok ads
doing all this like crazy stuff
different ways of acquisition those are
all about acqu quisition getting people
to your website they're all doing the
same thing they want to get people to
the website to buy the thing with email
is it's after that step it's really kind
of the only thing that is underneath
like the website so you have attention
then you have like website to get people
to buy and then you have email at the
bottom email is just your way to contact
people as cheaply as possible just with
the click of a button so a lot of the
people especially like today with ad
prices being so expensive and there's so
many different ways to be overwhelmed
with different acquisition channels if
you simplify things down email is at the
bottom of everything and it's how you
convert people you can experiment with
all sorts of different acquisition tools
but at the end of the day email is at
the bottom of the funnel you need to hit
people on multiple channels you need to
overcome their objections over time by
having things like the welcome flow
sending campaigns and these are what
actually get people to purchase once
you've harnessed their attention with
things like ads or organic media to get
them to the website email is what's at
the bottom of the funnel it's what is
going to get these people to trust you
enough to purchase and then once they do
purchase from you it's how you keep
consistent contact over them thing with
ads you can't really predict many touch
points you're giving a customer you just
don't really know as much like what
you're saying you can't really send
nurture content on ads to keep people
engaged with you somebody sees an ad
it's kind of just like no they know that
you're trying to sell you with email you
can send Evergreen content to get people
to continue like to educate them and you
know exactly what you're sending people
every single day you know exactly what
touch points you're hitting so it's just
a lot more control with email and it's
the bottom of the funnel I haven't even
really talked about how cheap it is
because that is like the main amazing
thing about email is it's so cheap you
get a click on an email that's way less
than click on an ad emails literally
cost pennies to send and anybody can do
it and it's just one click of a button
and you know exactly what's going to a
ton of people and it's just Revenue it's
cheap it's cheap Revenue targeted
towards people who already know like and
trust you the people who have your email
address and so it's just a no-brainer to
have it and it's why people brands are
able to generate 40% plus of their
revenue from emails because easiest
access people who already know like can
trust you these aren't cold traffic
people so bottom of the funnel it's
cheap and you have a lot of control over
it and that's really just like why email
is kind of like bread and butter and why
every brand who wants to scale like
needs to have email dialed in yeah 100%
And like just like you touched on the
ROI on email is the best you're going to
get really across any sort of you know
marketing channel and you have the
opportunity to reach 5,000 10,000
100,000 people at the click of a button
that you can put whatever messaging you
want in front of them whether it's a
time of the year you know whether it's a
sale whether it's a launch promotion
whatever it may be that you just don't
have that same control over ads like you
were saying and I guess I'll just go
into kind of while we're talking just
about emails and what brands have to
have in place what's the bare minimum of
emails that every at least Ecom brand
has to have in place or should have in
place at least at a minimum yeah so bare
minimums if you want to have things set
up like obviously the more you have set
up the better but at the end of the day
you just need to have the bases in place
like that's going to generate 80% of
your success is having the Bas having
the bases you're not going to be able to
scale without them so the basis that you
need to have with email is you need to
have like core flows with at least
usually you want to minim minimum like
20 emails in the flows like obviously
like for our clients we're building like
more advanced 40 to 60 email flows but
you want to have at least like 20 across
all the core triggers so things like the
welcome flow after somebody joins the
list the abandonment flows like the side
abandon browse abandon card abandon and
checkout abandon you need all those in
place with at least a couple emails in
each to give people proper reminders to
go back to your site and then you have
likely your postp purchase stuff so your
post purchase flow trying to get some
upsells and help with the customer
experience as well you can do a couple
different things with your post purchase
flow then things like replenishment
reminder flows reminding of purchases
and then like the win back flow to get
people who bought a while ago to buy
again and then things like Sunset flow
for example to like clean your list so
you need to have those core flows in
place so on top of the core flows you
also need to be sending consistent email
campaigns at minimum minimum minimum two
campaigns a week some people think
that's a lot because they're sending
once a month but it's not with the
amount of emails that brands are sending
these days it's easy for people to
forget about you so you you need to be
sending out this frequency and you can
send at this frequency and generate good
results as long as you're not spamming
just like discount discount buy our
stuff send educational information
overcome objections talk about like
Community stuff and then you can send it
this frequency Our Brands that 78 figure
brands that we're generating 40% of
revenue from email for we're sending
three to four times a week and we're
getting 60% opens on our emails because
if you send good content people enjoy it
and you get consistent Revenue coming in
so going to say have the bases set up
have at least two to three emails in
your core flows that I listed earlier
send at minimum two email campaigns per
week and then have just a dialed pop-up
form so popup form is super important to
be able to get as much of your site
traffic you're spending a ton on ads
you're bringing people to your site but
they're leaving and you don't get
anything out of it a good pop-up form
allows you to get more out of your site
traffic you're able to send these people
emails to eventually get them to buy so
you want a pop-up form that's converting
at least 6% of your website traffic
ideally we want to be at like 10% so if
you bring 30,000 viewers to your website
on a given month then you're going to
get 3,000 people to sign up to the email
list so those are the bases base flows
two campaigns per week minimum and then
have a good pop-up form that's really it
don't need to do any crazy segmentation
you don't need to do any insane flows
that's all just micro optimizations that
you can do later just get those bases in
place and you can generate like really
really good results that can help you
scale so that's what I'd say yeah and
just doing all of that helps keep your
brand at top of mind like the reality is
with all the stuff on the internet
whether it's you know being bombarded
with a bunch of ads bunch of emails
people's attention spans on Tik Tok
Instagram whatever it is like you have
to be proactive in how you stay top of-
mind and reach out to your customer and
make sure they don't forget about you
cuz if you're not sending consistent
emails or SMS or whatever it may be you
are going to get forgotten about and
just fall into the long line of brands
that they saw and then never bought from
100% so those bases are obviously like
what we're building out for clients like
that work with us in the first 30 to 60
days it can be a lot and there's a lot
of stuff that goes into it flows
campaigns doing all the copy doing all
the design and everything so could you
walk us through just like the onboarding
process for we sign a new client I bring
in like a brand they're a multi- figure
brand they have some base stuff with
their email Emil strategy um but they're
coming in to hire us to really take it
to the next level so can you walk me
through just like a 90-day onboarding
process or 90day just like set system
what's the timeline what are we doing
and kind of like what the order is could
you talk us through that a little bit
Yeah 100% so the first thing with any
new client that's getting on board is we
start with a kickoff call which is
myself our account manager and then the
client of course so we go through the
kickoff form that they give us which
talks about brand target audience brand
voice copy guidelines things of that
nature so we just go not quite step by
step but just ask any questions that
we're going to need in the beginning
what the plan is if there's new launches
coming up what sort of nuances that we
have in in any of the flows things of
that nature to get give us a better idea
and a foundation of kind of what we need
to tackle then after that kind of the
first week goes into you know some of
the backend clavio stuff getting
everybody into slack including the
client we have a combined slack Channel
that'll have all of us where we'll have
all our constant communication then it
starts to get into actually building out
the base flows which is the first step
and just going kind of bigger picture
still we have three phases essentially
so analyze create Elevate the analyzing
stage is really the first week with the
kickoff call seeing what's going on with
the brand seeing what's set up seeing
what we have in clavia what we need to
optimize and kind of our starting base
and getting our foundation then we get
into the create phase which is where we
start writing the copy we start getting
all that doing doing all the product
research getting that over to our
designers to start building out the
flows which are going to come first
which you'll start getting in the first
2 to 4 weeks getting one to two flows a
week and getting everything set up there
so we have like Max was saying earlier
all the bases right around 3 weeks we
start sending out those consistent
campaigns two to three a week depending
on how warm the list is and kind of what
the overall goals are with the client
just to get everything up and running
make sure the list is nice and healthy
and that everything's in order there
with open rates cck rates and things of
that nature and then that's really after
the create phase we get into Elevate
which is more in the 60 to 90day Mark
which is where we start looking at okay
we implemented all these flows where are
we hitting the mark where are we doing
well where are we falling short where we
could we have some more AB tests and
where are we really seeing the best
results and then from there obviously
elevating and optimizing and really
creating and making this a getting
everything to the best place that it
Poss Poss can be at so starting off with
analyzing going through doing the
research making sure checking out what
we have currently in clavio creating the
popup form creating the base flows start
getting campaigns out and making sure
you know we're fully on the same page
with the client and that everything's
good and then Elevate which is a 60 to
90day mark is really just optimizing and
getting the absolute best conversion
getting everything set up to where we
want them to be 100% And A lot of people
ask like aren't you doing like most of
the work in like the first like 60 days
with getting all the flows set up and
like like everything but that's really
just the beginning like Elevate really
is just like the last ongoing phase
where you start to really see results
starting like 120 days after working
with us and then it just only gets
better like our clients that we've had
for over a year results get better every
single month as we continue to learn
more we continue to test we build upon
our current flows we apply what we're
learning in our campaigns into our flows
we're taking our best campaigns and
moving them into flows like it does well
in a campaign we can move it in a flow
and optimize it that's one of the things
like where really the most value comes
is in Elevate in the long-term partners
ship and then us picking up like
different areas inside the business
where we can help out like clients
asking us to do like some of their
social media copy or having us put
together listicles and landing pages and
stuff that's stuff that like we're able
to do and that's like the stuff that
like happens after the Elevate phase but
we have to get the bases in place and
then we'll go back and revisit and then
optimize over time yeah and there's no
shortage of tests and areas where we can
always be improving whether it's in the
popups whether it's in the flows whether
it's testing send times send days all of
this people don't think about it much
but it does matter and it does make a
difference in the revenue we see and the
results and that's why you know we
continually are able to keep our clients
happy and delivering for them and Max we
recently took a brand from 20K a month
from email to about 200k a month and
they scaled from 300K a month store
Revenue to about 5 or 600k in the
process what did we do exactly like tell
everyone like exactly you know what that
process was like from kickoff and then
all the way to where we are today yeah
so that only took 120 days and it's
literally just by following the process
that you just outlined like everybody
really tries to over complicate it but
let me talk a little bit because this
was like more of a nuanced case this was
a brand they hadn't really ever done
email they had a couple like a band cart
emails set up they were doing $20,000 a
month just from like some of the card
abandoned welcome flow emails and
whatnot in their store Revenue was about
300,000 so the thing with like new
accounts that don't really send emails
is they have no deliverability so your
deliverability is how often are you
Landing in the inbox versus the spam
folder and if you're not really sending
emails that often you've no reputation
in front of Google they think you're
fresh domain and they don't trust you
and so when you do send emails you land
in the spam folder so that was like one
of the real issues when we came in no
emails really set up bad deliverability
and so what we had to do is we had to
ramp things up we had to ramp up their
deliverability and warm things up how we
do that is you start off with the base
flows but you only start with like the
first email in each flow and you
incorporate a lot of text within that so
that you have a lot of text versus
images which is going to help with your
inbox placement you're just making sure
it's optimized for getting a lot of
clicks cuz with every click we get we're
going to improve reputation so we set up
these base flows and over time the flows
just like are sending emails throughout
the day it's not like you blast an email
all at once you're sending to 10,000
people that's not how flows work flows
activate when somebody adds not into
their car and leaves so you'll get one
email sent at 12:30 and then another
being sent at 12:45 just cuz like that's
when people enter so this like gradually
is going to boost our reputation CU
these are high high engaging flows then
on the campaign side we went straight to
sending three to four email campaigns a
week when you have no reputation you
want to build it fast you need to send
with volume Google Yahoo inbox providers
they like volume they want to see that
you're sending emails at a high volume
to prove that like you're real and so we
started sending three to four times per
week but slowly ramping up the lists and
taking the most engaged people and
continuing to send to them so starting
off by sending to 100 200 people then
the next send we send to like 300 people
and then we send to 500 and then 700 and
slowly ramp things up and so we just
trusted the process create high engaging
emails that converted well slowly added
on more emails to the flows over time as
our reputation got better to the point
where now 120 days later we have over 50
emails in the flows firing getting over
50% opens we're sending to over 10,000
people at once and we're generating over
$200,000 a month from email so we added
$200,000 a month in email Revenue their
Top Line went from $300,000 to
$550,000 per month so exactly how email
scale their store Revenue scal came from
nothing definitely a good case study
definitely a fun one yeah that's pretty
much like the majority of it am I
missing anything with that I know you're
more in the Weeds on that so I might
have oversimplified it no not too much I
mean everything we did with them was you
know relatively the same kind of basic
structure that we've been talking about
this whole time it's just really the
deliverability was completely shot like
in the beginning we realized a lot of
you know what we were sending out it
wasn't getting Del it either had high
bounce rates it was definitely going
into spam and obviously going into a new
account those are things we have to test
out but once we're able to recognize it
we can address it you know slowly
warming building up that domain
reputation cuz a lot of people probably
think if you have bad deliverability why
would you be sending more emails well
it's because Google and Yahoo and
whatever the inbox provider is needs
more data to go off of if you're never
sending they have no data on if you're
reputable or not they just see an email
that's not really sending to anyone and
nobody's opening them but if you start
with small engaged segments and start
sending to them frequently where there's
40 50 60% of the list of that list
engaged segment opening it Google starts
to see hey this might be you know this
is a legitimate company people are
interested in what they're seeing and
they will continue to forward that to
people's primary inbox the same way
YouTube H or YouTube or Instagram or
whoever has tailored content to you and
they don't want to feed you information
that they think isn't worthwhile or that
you won't be interested in so
deliverability is a huge factor it's
super I don't want to say it's it's not
a difficult thing to obtain but I think
a lot of Brands just go balls to the
wall and they're like yeah I want to
send to all 100,000 people here well the
reality is 10 or 15% of that list is
completely unengaged they might be fake
profiles they might have you know
switched emails whatever it is other
20,000 in there may really rarely ever
check their email so you have to find
what your engaged segment is to build up
your deliverability once you build up
your deliverability then you're
consistently Landing in your primary
inbox you find your most engaged
customers and your emails really have a
real impact 100% love it lots of sauce
there yeah that's a good case study so
results are one thing those are
definitely a big part of client like
retention and dealing with clients for a
long time or working with clients for a
long time building those relationships
and you know we have like a 95% or we do
have a 95% client retention rate which
not a lot of agencies really do a lot of
agencies they just churn and burn
through clients so could you talk about
like what you think our biggest factors
are like us as an agency well copy on
having a 95% client retention rate like
what do you think those main things are
that keep clients with us and keep them
happy and working with us for long long
time even though our contracts are
month-to Monon Brands can cancel with us
anytime but they keep working with us
over and over again yeah absolutely well
you touched on it but 100% obviously
results are part of it you know if we're
continuing to make you money you're
going to stick around because what we're
doing is working and what we're doing is
going well and why would you you know
change that up so consistently being
able to really deliver those results and
make the investment in an agency worth
it but further more than that which is a
pretty obvious one constant
communication customer experience are
the two biggest things of why clients
continue to stay with us and don't
decide to churn or bring it in house or
do it themselves whatever it may be
there's been clients that have been here
for you know obviously a long time and
the reason is because they don't view us
as contractors nor do we act like
contractors you know we act like genuine
partners that want to see them Excel and
creating that relationship through
constant communication sharing results
and frequently doing it every nobody
wants to hire an agency and then hear
radio silence on the other end CU even
if you're doing a ton of stuff in the
back end and you're doing everything
right if you don't communicate that over
to the client they have no idea what's
going on so constantly sending over
results or what we're doing behind the
scenes what we're working on even just
so that they're constantly in the loop
and always know what we're doing to
further their brand further their CA and
just always being there when they need
things cuz it's the nature of a
service-based business the nature of
Ecom is things come up and we have to be
able to problem solve and be there for
them when something goes wrong maybe
there's a trigger that's not firing
right maybe there is an update to the
Shopify theme who knows what it might be
but really just creating that customer
experience where they don't just have a
contractor but they really have a
partner in there fully in the trenches
with them and pumping out results and
flows and deliverables that convert and
are making the money and communicating
all of that through the process yeah
100% it's one thing to say like have
good client communication but like how
do you quantify that so I want to like
add on and give you like another
question so kind of like what our
process is for client communication so
brand signs to work with us what can
they expect like what's our
communication Cadence how often are they
hearing from us when are they getting
updates what do the updates look like
could you talk through that a little bit
sure so starting out a bit more broad
then I'll go to the day-to-day but we
have monthly and quarterly reports which
we constantly sending over to our
clients when it's you know either the
end of the month or the end of the
quarter and giving them all the data
that they're interested in showing them
you know the Leaps and Bounds we've made
over email or even if something's maybe
not perform you know this isn't a
perfect world if something's maybe not
looking the best metrics wise explain
what problems we're seeing in those
reports and how we plan to make it
better so constantly sharing results on
a monthly or quarterly level but also
breaking it down even further to a
weekly level so our account managers
every Monday are going into our client
slack channels and giving them just a
quick Monday report basically on what
happened the week before what sort of
results we had what the top performing
campaign was you know obviously variable
depending on the client but talking
about the past week and then we have a
little section about what's upcoming so
hey we're working on the card abandoned
flow for you should have it Wednesday
plan on sending out three campaigns this
week they're in figma for you to review
and whatever it may be just like I said
earlier communicating what we're doing
behind the scenes and making sure
they're always in the loop in terms of
the numbers or just what we're working
on what's upcoming what they have for
review whatever it may be and even
breaking it down further than that we're
always communicating with our clients
inside of slack I'd say three times a
week at a minimum but realistically it's
four to 5 days a week we're in there cuz
if you're 2 weeks ahead on an account
there may not be you know something
pressing that you guys got to figure out
in slack or something super needs to get
done right now cuz ideally and the way
we work is you know working a week or
two ahead there's not always something
urgent to report but even sharing things
like little numbers like sharing what
the popup form did last week sharing an
AB test that we decided to put in the
browse aband flow whatever it may be
just showing them that there are
constant updates going on whether it
looks like it or not that's past just
like sending campaigns getting reviews
getting things sent out that there's a
lot more going on behind the scenes and
showing them what's going on in their
company in their clavo and I think
that's something that clients really
appreciate and one of the reasons why
they continue to stick with us for
months on end and why our turn rate is
where it is absolutely so it's like we
have our quarterly reports we have our
monthly reports and then we have our
Monday reports and then we have like our
day-to-day as well where it's day-to-day
communication client requests something
we're going to respond within an hour
during the weekday like usually a lot of
our account managers are on it like
instantly but it really does like some
clients were communicating all
throughout the day in slack where if
they're like a more intricate project or
they have a lot going on where some it's
like they kind of just want us to run
their emails like we're just adaptable
and everybody's trained to be able to
deal with like whatever situation so it
really is just that and then we also of
course meeting as well at minimum we
have a monthly meeting with clients to
review results touch based on calendar
and everything some clients as
frequently as weekly other clients every
other week just depends on the client
and their needs and what it takes to
like generate them the best results like
clients where they're dropping an item
every week and we need a touch base on
assets then we'll have a weekly call
with them it just depends client to
client so yeah for sure I think that
communication Cadence has had a lot of
success for us and I think it's like
again like you said like one of the
reasons that clients like do stick with
us 100 100% another question I kind of
had for you was some of the bigger
brands that we're working with like some
of the eight figure brands that are
doing bringing in a ton organically on
email all of it what are some things
that they do in their email marketing
that other brands aren't doing and what
differentiates them yeah so as far as
like what the big brands are doing that
like other brands aren't is they're
really not doing that much differently
like everybody thinks like oh these top
brands are doing this crazy stuff with
email the truth is like they aren't
they're just executing the basics at a
high level all their core flows are
absolutely dialed they're constantly
testing they are cons consistently
sending email campaigns four times a
week every other day consistently and
they're making those emails super
quality giving value to the customer
really good OnPoint copy awesome
dopamine releasing designs that keep the
customers coming back and keep your list
engaged and keep people from
unsubscribing they're just doing that
consistently just executing these Basics
they don't have this crazy flow hyper
automation stuff hyper personalization
where they're segmenting their list by
their favorite ice cream flavor and
sending them custom emails no that
nobody does that that takes too much
time that's low Leverage focused on the
high leverage their abandonment flows
like what how do the emails look what
are the objections that you're
overcoming and they've just tested these
things and were sending emails like just
at a high level the basics they're
sending the same amount three to four
times a week they're sending that and
they have the same flows set up
they're's doing it a high level and
that's really all it is is just making
sure that you have the time to really
put together quality emails to put
together strategic emails that are
overcoming certain things reviewing the
performance of like your past emails
what's performing well and how can we
apply that to our new performance that's
really all it is there's not some crazy
Wizardry that these eight fig brands are
doing they're just executing the basics
and they are executing them well based
on the data that they're getting and
reviewing which like for us for example
we're reviewing that data every single
week and then also every single month on
a wider level so we're always able to
like see what's working how can we apply
it to the Future it's really not some
crazy Wizardry that they're doing yeah
100% And I think like one of the basic
themes here and just like how we operate
in general is philosophy of less is more
in a lot of aspects of this just getting
the bases in order doing the little
things well and kind of sticking to the
fundamentals and that's something that
these bigger brands that we've seen get
there that's kind of what they're
consistently doing what are some key
components of high converting email
designs that they do or other brands do
that some people might be missing the
mark on yeah easy low hanging fruit with
your emails is just like button
placement big buttons high up in the
email above the fold so above the fold
is when somebody opens your email what
exactly of the email are they seeing do
they have to scroll and so if you can
have clear headline strong graphic and
then a big button value proposition
right when somebody opens an email
that's what you see like all the big
Brands doing who are actually doing
email right just cuz someone's a Big
Brand doesn't mean they're good at email
but all the brands who are good at email
and they're big Brands because of their
email that's what they're doing so
that's really like one of the main
things and then just the flow of your
email is it pretty do you have clean
transitions because that's what's going
to keep somebody scrolling if you have
blocky emails it gives every time a
customer reaches a new block they're
thinking about exiting their app so
keeping things flowy keeping your emails
simple so a customer isn't despising
opening their email because they know
they're going to have to read a th words
no if you keep your email simple make it
easy for the dopamine craving customer
and Tik Tok addicted person that
everybody is including myself then
they're going to keep coming back to
your emails and on top of that so that's
just like on the design copyight of
things but you also want to make sure
that you're displaying value correctly
and so giving value of course your
emails shouldn't just be buyer stuff
everything about you giving tips and
tricks showing people how to use your
product how to get the most out of your
product if you sell like hiking boots
you can send emails about like the best
hikes in North America like bucket list
hikes like that sort of stuff like
giving value is going to keep your
engagement High get people to trust you
to want to make a purchase and you also
with your design and high converting
design you want to display all that
information properly if you have stats
you don't just want to say our product
has a 94% success rate you want to have
graphs showing 94 people out of 100 you
could Circle 94 people and then leave
out like six people and show that
information people love infographics the
more you can use infographics the better
your emails are going to convert people
don't want to read they want to visually
see things that just works better so
kind of to summarize that high
converting email design optimized above
the fold section with clear value
proposition strong graphic and a button
the whole email flows it's quick it's
nothing too crazy and then you're giving
value to the customer as well is really
just like all that it takes and on top
of that so I'm going to kind of mix in
two questions here first I want to hear
about the step-by-step process for us
we're creating 600 700 emails every
single month for our clients so like
what's our process exactly for creating
an email from ideation to clicking send
like how are we coming up with the
strategy and then how are we clicking
send and then also a big part of that is
the client review process where the
client's reviewing the email and leaving
revisions so I want you to talk through
that with a little bit more depth so can
you talk me through step by step from
ideation to implementing an email and
then go a little bit more in depth on
like client feedback how we process
client feedback as well as revisions
yeah 100% so obviously every you know
email like you said starts in the
ideation phase we have our account
manager obviously as you get more
familiar with the brand as well come up
with different more creative angles the
actual process so it starts actually the
month before we're in end of November
right now we're getting the December
calendars ready and most of them are
already set so we have the calendar in
terms of each individual email it all
starts in the copy phase so copywriter
goes in takes a look at what angle we're
taken on any given email writes a copy
in in our templates pass it off to our
designer who designs works or magic
creates something absolutely beautiful
then after that's done our account
manager gets notified hey an email's
ready so they go in take a look at it
make sure it's you know on brand cuz our
account manager is the one communicating
with our clients every day knows some of
the more nuanced stuff some of the
things that really work well inside
clavio and they kind of add their two
cents in change anything up if needed
and then they send it over to the client
so this is kind of getting into what
you're talking about with the client
feedback and making revisions so once we
send it over to the client not to get
too technical but they get an Automation
and slack saying hey this campaign is
ready for your review they click on that
go into figma take a look at the email
and they're able to comment very easily
on certain areas that might need to be
revised maybe the wording needs updated
different graphic whatever it may be and
then they go back and forth a little
with the account manager make a round of
revisions account manager is the one who
goes in and typically makes you know all
of those changes something a little more
designheavy the designer will step in
and then send it back to the client for
review the client will let us know if
it's good to go if there's anything else
that needs to get updated but once it's
good to go our clavio technician will
take it uploaded into clavio and set up
some of the lists and segments and then
our account manager goes in a little bit
later and gets everything scheduled make
sure the list segments segments
exclusions are correct make sure all the
links are right in the email make sure
everything's you know sliced perfectly
and looks exactly how it did in figma
and then we go on and get it scheduled
so that's kind of the process from A to
Z of how an email gets created obviously
the revision process is you know
depending on the brand some are a little
bit easier than others off the bat some
of them take a little more work to get
right just as it's a new brand a new
voice different copy guidelines and
things that we might take a little bit
of time to get used to we always tell
clients everything might not be perfect
on the first go around but guaranteed
that we will get it and 10 out of 10
times 1 month 2 month 3 months in
revisions are much much smaller none of
it's really The Branding guidelines as
much as you know what might be happening
at that specific time so maybe for a
campaign or a Blog email we might have
to update some things if there's
different code we have to use or the
discount changes the revisions become
more like that opposed to The Branding
after we have some time to work with it
get everything right and then by 3
months in we know the brand like the
back of our hand and we're able to
implement these and make that revision
process super smooth for clients 100%
truth is as much as we'd love to get
your brand perfectly you know the brand
better than anybody as the brand owner
we're not going to know all the nuances
after just like one week of knowing the
brand so it's not going to be perfect on
the first go this is why we have
unlimited revisions this is why we're
communicating so often with our clients
and making these revisions as fast as we
can because we're not going to be
perfect on the first go but I can tell
you for damn certain we're going to be
taking notes on the revisions and
applying them to all the future emails
to make sure that by that 3 to four
month Mark everything's locked in you're
not making any more branding comments
for our emails and things are a lot
easier what's a quick email Hack That
Ecom Brands can Implement today to make
more money founder text-based emails
don't do the crazy Graphics all the time
mix in an email from the founder just be
like hey I'm Max from well copy wanted
to personally reach out and let you know
about blah blah blah blah blah whatever
it may be make it text based don't have
any graphics just make a show up native
to the person's inbox which you can do
with any inbox provider whether it's
clavo MailChimp whatever um and just
send the founder based email it's super
easy for the customer to read it feels
personal it just looks like it's coming
from a friend and it converts like crazy
you can send these as campaigns use them
intentionally in certain areas of your
flows like the card abandoned flow
checkout abandoned you can send messages
from the founder reaching out for
support as well as the welcome flow a
postp purchase thank you message just
start experimenting with founder based
text based emails cuz they perform
really really well yeah no 100% % and
when in doubt shoot a text based emails
out I don't know why people sleep on
them they see other companies always
running these different it doesn't
always have to be fancy going back to
less is more text based emails do
phenomenal and I don't know why they're
so slept on what's the favorite email
campaign you've ever created yeah so my
favorite that we've ever done was for
gains and bulk and it was just an email
saying our creatine isn't cheap it's a
very premium product it's the best in
the game best creatine and so rather
than try to like overcome pricing
objections we just create an email say
like straight up like our creatine's not
cheap we could make it cheaper but then
we'd have to cut out on this feature on
the product this feature on the product
this feature on the product like being
like backed by certain organizations
being all of them being quality tested
and 100% pure so you're kind of just
like backing the customer into a corner
and just justifying your price without
being like too pushy you're just telling
them like hey we understand our creating
isn't cheap it's not for everybody this
is only for people who were wanting to
invest in the best to their body and it
absolutely crushed one of the best
performing emails and now we use that in
our cart and check out abandoned flows
to overcome that pricing objection just
be like hey if you're not willing to
spend $39 on this creatine then it's not
for you this is just for the high
Achievers and so that's probably my
favorite where we addressed that price
objection just like upfront and I
thought it was executed really well hell
yeah and it killed if I'm remembering it
correctly it did what's the best time to
send emails so a lot of people are like
oh send night emails send emails like
600 p.m. 7:00 p.m. when people are off
work don't do this for email for text
that can work well because right when
you receive a text message you check
your phone slightly different for email
people not everybody has notifications
on their Emil email and not everybody
are are looking at every single email
that's being sent to them at the same
time so I like to send emails earlier in
the day before noon ideally like 10:11
a.m. or like 1: to 2:00 p.m. now why is
that you give somebody the opportunity
to open your email all throughout the
day so somebody is checking their email
maybe like twice a day they'll check at
like 400 p.m. or they'll check at like
noon if you send an email at 7:00 p.m.
not a lot of people really check their
email past 7:00 p.m. and so if you send
earlier in the day you're able to get
the opport Unity to get all these people
to open your emails all throughout the
day because if an email is sent at 8:00
a.m. somebody's checking their email at
7:00 p.m. they're still going to see it
and so that's just I always recommend
sending earlier in the day it just works
a lot better so you talk about email
account managers they're doing a lot of
their strategy and they're dealing with
clients and it's one of the positions
that are the most important so what is
the most important trait that you look
for in an email marketing account
manager who's going to be dealing with
our clients especially from a dealing
with clients perspective communication
we touched on it earlier when we were
talking about kind of what
differentiates us our approach to client
reporting but someone with extremely
strong communication skills someone that
you feel comfortable hopping on a client
call without maybe me or you there and
at the end of the day I think that's the
absolute biggest one cuz if they're able
to communicate well with the client that
means more likely than not they're also
communicating well with the team you
know with their copywriters designers
whoever it may be internally to create
the best possible outcome and make sure
things are getting done on track so yeah
I'd boil it down all the communication
so we have account managers you said
they're working with copywriters
designers and whatnot talk about a
little bit just briefly like the
structure at our agency how do we
structure different team members how
does this all work what's like the org
structure like who's working on the
account talk briefly about how we
structure everything when we're working
with 50 different clients at once yeah
100% so obviously you know we're one big
team but broken up into smaller teams
which we referred to as our pods so each
pod is going to consist of an account
manager designer copywriter then a
clavio technician who's going to be the
one implementing all the emails into
clavio by doing this and making this
shift it's allowed us to really a build
the the culture of these smaller teams
so it's the same people the same account
manager same designer same copywriter
all working with each other consistently
so the workflow is incredibly smooth
also they're working on the same Brands
all the time each pole manage between
four and seven accounts typically and by
doing this you don't have one designer
working with this copywriter and then
this account manager in the caveo it's
all very Consolidated and lean in a
sense so that they're meeting three
times a week they're always on the same
page with any revisions any changes in
the account what we need to do
differently what's working and that just
consistently allows things to work very
very smoothly also it's just incredible
seeing you know these pods like grow
like obviously it's in a remote
environment but you see the
relationships build over time and then
the workflow the work itself the team
culture all of that just improves tfold
from that 100% yeah we dealt with issues
with not having pods so like a
copywriter would would be working with a
couple different account managers or a
designer is jumping in here and there
but once we split to like pods and it's
like this is your team this is your
squad get to know each other really well
build some chemistry and yeah we just
noticed huge increase in productivity
and then also client satisfaction was
huge cool well I think we didn't get to
all of our questions but I think there's
a ton of stuff there we definitely
yapped more than I thought but we're
known for yapping so hopefully that was
helpful for a lot of people if you made
it this far I hope you kept some brain
sales but appreciate you watching to the
end of this be on the lookout for more
videos awesome good stuff thank you Mr
Michael for taking the time let's go
back to making some Ecom Brands some
more money so adios amigos and let us
know if you have any more questions
maybe we can make another one of these
all right peace